Suppose given a commutative diagram tex of abelian groups with exact rows, then there is a canonical exact sequence tex Moreover, if tex is injective, then the first map is injective, and if tex is surjective, then the last map is surjective.
Let tex be a ring. Let tex be an tex-module.   We say tex is a  finite tex-module, or a  finitely generated tex-module if there exist tex and tex such that every element of tex is a tex-linear combination of the tex. Equivalently, this means there exists a surjection tex for some tex.  We say tex is a  finitely presented tex-module or an  tex-module of finite presentation if there exist integers tex and an exact sequence tex.
Let tex be a ring. Let tex and tex be module maps. If tex, then there exists an tex-module map tex such that tex.
Let tex be a ring. Let tex be a short exact sequence of tex-modules.   If tex and tex are finite tex-modules, then tex is a finite tex-module.  If tex and tex are finitely presented tex-modules, then tex is a finitely presented tex-module.  If tex is a finite tex-module, then tex is a finite tex-module.  If tex is a finitely presented tex-module and tex is a finite tex-module, then tex is a finitely presented tex-module.  If tex is a finitely presented tex-module and tex is a finite tex-module, then tex is a finite tex-module. 
 Finite modules have filtrations such that successive quotients are cyclic modules.  Let tex be a ring, and let tex be a finite tex-module. There exists a filtration by tex-submodules tex such that each quotient tex is isomorphic to tex for some ideal tex of tex.
Let tex be a ring map. Let tex be an tex-module. If tex is finite as an tex-module, then tex is finite as an tex-module.
Let tex be a ring map.   We say tex is of  finite type, or that  tex is a finite type tex-algebra if there exists an tex and an surjection of tex-algebras tex.  We say tex is of  finite presentation if there exist integers tex and polynomials tex and an isomorphism of tex-algebras tex. 
The notions finite type and finite presentation have the following permanence properties.   A composition of ring maps of finite type is of finite type.  A composition of ring maps of finite presentation is of finite presentation.  Given tex with tex of finite type, then tex is of finite type.  Given tex, with tex of finite presentation, and tex of finite type, then tex is of finite presentation. 
Let tex be a ring map of finite presentation. For any surjection tex the kernel of tex is a finitely generated ideal in tex.
Let tex be a ring map. Let tex be an tex-module. Assume tex is of finite type and tex is finitely presented as an tex-module. Then tex is finitely presented as an tex-module.
Let tex be a ring map. We say tex is  finite if tex is finite as an tex-module.
Let tex be a finite ring map. Let tex be an tex-module. Then tex is finite as an tex-module if and only if tex is finite as an tex-module.
Suppose that tex and tex are finite ring maps. Then tex is finite.
A  partially ordered set is a set tex together with a relation tex which is transitive (if tex and tex then tex) and reflexive (tex for all tex). A  directed set tex is a partially ordered set tex such that tex is not empty and such that tex, there exists tex with tex.
Let tex be a partially ordered set. A  system tex of tex-modules over tex consists of a family of tex-modules tex indexed by tex and a family of tex-module maps tex such that for all tex tex. We say tex is a  directed system if tex is a directed set.
Let tex be a system of tex-modules over the partially ordered set tex. The colimit of the system tex is the quotient tex-module tex where tex is the tex-submodule generated by all elements tex where tex is the natural inclusion. We denote the colimit tex. We denote tex the projection map and tex.